Practical 5
Virtual LAN give steps of implementation in cisco packet
->A Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN) is essentially a way to create multiple logical networks within a single physical network
->VLANs are used to separate different departments or groups within an organization.
how to prefome :-
1) Add Devices:

Drag and drop switches and end devices (PCs) onto the workspace.
Connect Devices:

Use appropriate cables (e.g., FastEthernet straight-through) to connect PCs to the switches.
2) Configure VLANs on the Switch:

Click on a switch to access its CLI (Command-Line Interface).
Enter privileged EXEC mode: enable
Enter global configuration mode: configure terminal
Create VLANs: vlan <VLAN ID> (e.g., vlan 10, vlan 20)
Name VLANs (optional but recommended): name <VLAN name> (e.g., name Sales, name Marketing)
Exit VLAN configuration mode: exit
3) Assign Ports to VLANs:

Enter interface configuration mode for each port: interface <interface ID> (e.g., interface FastEthernet0/1)
Set the port to access mode: switchport mode access
Assign the port to a VLAN: switchport access vlan <VLAN ID> (e.g., switchport access vlan 10)
Repeat for all required interfaces.
Exit interface configuration mode: exit
4) Configure Trunking (if needed):

If you have more than one switch, you will need to configure a trunk link between the switches.
Enter interface configuration mode for the interface connecting the switches.
Set the port to trunk mode: switchport mode trunk
Set the allowed vlans on the trunk port: switchport trunk allowed vlan <vlan ID list> example: switchport trunk allowed vlan 10,20
Repeat for the other side of the trunk link.
5) Configure IP Addresses on PCs:

Click on each PC and go to the "Desktop" tab, then "IP Configuration."
Assign IP addresses within the same subnet for PCs in the same VLAN.
Ensure that the PCs in different VLANs are assigned to different subnets.
6) Test Connectivity:

Use the ping command from a PC to test connectivity with other PCs in the same VLAN and, if configured, other VLANs through a router or layer 3 switch.
Verify that PCs in different VLANs cannot ping each other, unless a router or layer 3 switch is used for intervlan routing.